Cars and trucks were barred from the Promenade des Anglais during Thursday's Bastille Day festivities, but the terrorist who plowed a 19-ton truck into a mile-long crowd of revelers - killing at least 84 - reportedly got past police by telling them he had ice cream to hand out. Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, a 31-year-old divorced loner, petty criminal and Tunisian national began his route of carnage by slowly moving onto the packed, seaside walkway around 10:40 p.m. local time. Then, say witnesses, he gunned the engine and weaved through the horrified crowd for nearly a mile, leaving a wake of dead and broken bodies. Police killed him in a shootout minutes later. "Such a monstrosity," French President Francois Hollande said Friday. "France is deeply saddened, but it is also very strong. I can assure you we will always be stronger than the fanatics who are trying to attack us." There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but two sources, including a U.S. counterterrorism source who collects and monitors jihadist social media, told Fox News that accounts linked to ISIS were “celebratory” and their followers were told to use the hashtag “Nice.” Bouhlel, who shot at revelers after driving through the crowd and was then killed by police, was reportedly known to police prior to the attack although his rap sheet included just one arrest, for a road rage incident in March French Justice Minister Jean-Jacques Urvoas said. "There was an altercation between him and another driver and he hurled a wooden pallet at the man," Urvoas told reporters. Bouhlel was given a suspended sentence and had to contact police once a week, which he did, Urvoas said. Two Americans among the dead were identified by a relative as Sean Copeland, 51, and his 11-year-old son Brodie. They were from the Austin area and were vacationing with other family members, according to relatives. Regional President Christian Estrosi also said that more than 10 children were among the dead. A children’s hospital in Nice said it had treated some 50 children and adolescents injured in the attack. Many of the dead were reportedly Muslim, including women whose bodies were seen still clad in the faith's head scarves. The Daily Mail reported that Bouhlel told police he was delivering ice cream when they questioned why he was parked on the promenade before the attack, which ravaged one of Europe's most scenic tourist destinations. “Why Nice?" Hollande asked. "Because it is a city that is known through the world – it’s one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Why Bastille Day? Because it is the celebration of liberty.” Damien Allemand, a journalist for Nice-Matin, said the fireworks display was over and people were getting up to leave when they heard a loud noise and screams. "A fraction of a second later, an enormous white truck came along at a crazy speed, turning the wheel to mow down the maximum number of people," he said. "I saw bodies flying like bowling pins along its route. Heard noises, cries that I will never forget." Another witness, Wassim Bouhlel, told The Associated Press that he saw the truck drive into the crowd, then witnessed the driver emerge with a gun and start shooting. "There was carnage on the road," Bouhlel said. "Bodies everywhere." Video showed men and women -- one or two pushing strollers -- racing to get away from the scenes. And, in what appeared to be evidence of a gun battle, photos showed a truck with at least half a dozen bullet holes punched through its windshield. In addition to extending the country’s state of emergency and the Sentinel operation with 10,000 soldiers on patrol, Hollande said he was calling up "operational reserves," those who have served in the past and will be brought in to help police, particularly at French borders. President Obama condemned "what appears to be a horrific terrorist attack" in the strongest terms. He odered American flags to be flown at half-staff in honor of the victims. "On this Bastille Day," Obama said, "we are reminded of the extraordinary resilience and democratic values that have made France an inspiration to the entire world, and we know that the character of the French Republic will endure long after this devastating and tragic loss of life." Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump announced late Thursday that he would postpone the announcement of his running mate, which had been scheduled to take place Friday morning. Flags were lowered to half-staff in Nice and in Paris. Marseille also canceled their fireworks celebrations for Friday. July 14 is a national holiday in France that commemorates the storming of the Bastille prison in Paris and the start of the French Revolution. The man who drove a truck into a crowd in Nice, France, killing 84 people, plotted his July 14 attack for months with "support and accomplices," Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said Thursday. Molins said authorities are investigating five suspects who are in custody on terror charges related to the attack that Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel carried out on Bastille Day, France's main national holiday. One suspect allegedly sent Bouhlel a Facebook message saying, "Load the truck with tons of iron and cut the brakes. I'll look brother." Bouhlel, 31, drove a 20-ton truck through hundreds who had gathered to watch the Bastille Day fireworks on the Mediterranean city's waterfront. An analysis of cell phone and computer content -- including a photo of last year's Bastille Day fireworks event focused on the crowd -- showed Bouhlel had been planning the assault since at least 2015, Moins said. The cell phone content also included information on the drug Captagon, an amphetamine pill that can cause a surge of energy and a euphoric high. Jihadist fighters sometimes use this drug. "The investigation underway since the night of July 14 has progressed and not only confirmed the murderous premeditated nature of Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel's act but also established that he benefited from support and accomplices," Molins said at a news conference. French authorities had previously said six people were in custody in connection with the attacks. An Albanian couple was arrested Sunday, according to the Paris prosecutor's office. Agnes Thibault Lecuivre, a spokeswoman for the anti-terrorism prosecutor, did not provide details on their alleged connection. Bouhlel's estranged wife was arrested at her apartment July 15 and later released without charges, her attorney, Jean-Yves Garino, told CNN. Garino said the woman, who is the mother of Bouhlel's three children, had not been in contact with the attacker since they were in the middle of divorce proceedings. Police shot Bouhlel to death after he barreled down the crowded Promenade des Anglais for almost a mile, crushing and hitting people who had gathered to watch fireworks. More than 200 people were injured. Authorities identified him by fingerprints after his identification card was found in the truck. ISIS' media group, Amaq Agency, said last weekend that a "soldier" of the terror organization carried out the attack. "The person ... carried out the operation in response to calls to target nationals of the coalition which is fighting the Islamic State," according to the statement. Molins said Thursday there was no evidence so far that Bouhlel or his alleged accomplices had direct contact with ISIS. Bouhlel, a resident of Nice, was born in Tunisia but had a permit to live and work in France. He was known to police because of allegations of threats, violence and thefts over the past six years, and he was given a suspended six-month prison sentence this year after being convicted of violence with a weapon, authorities said. Despite his criminal record, Bouhlel hadn't shown up on any anti-terrorist intelligence radar, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve has said. He had no record of making militant statements and was not known to the intelligence services. After a truck rammed through the crowded streets of the Promenade des Anglais in Nice killing at least 84 people on Thursday, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said the attack struck the country at its core. "France has been struck once again in her flesh, on the 14th of July, on the day of our national celebration," Valls said. The horrific incident in France is now one of several devastating attacks the country has endured in recent months. U.S. President Barack Obama issued a statement saying, "We stand in solidarity and partnership with France, our oldest ally, as they respond to and recover from this attack." This display of unity rippled across the world as iconic landmarks lit up in blue, white and red for France as they had after attacks last year. Montreal, the Canadian city that has deep ties to France, mourned the tragedy that unfolded during Bastille Day, France's national holiday. "As a gesture of solidarity with the French people, the Hotel de Ville is illuminated in the colors of France and the flag is at half-mast on the balcony," the city said in a statement. "The thoughts of Montrealers are with the families of the victims and their families." On the other side of the globe, several landmarks in Australia displayed their support. the Adelaide Town Hall in South Australia glowed in tribute to France. The man who used a 20-ton truck to plow down hundreds of people in Nice this week, killing 84, somehow became rapidly radicalized and hadn't shown up on any anti-terrorist intelligence radar, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said Saturday. The minister said Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, 31, had had no record of making militant statements and was not known to the intelligence services. It seems he became radicalized very quickly," Cazeneuve said, without offering specifics. "This is a new type of attack," Cazeneuve said. "We are now confronted with individuals that are sensitive to the message of ISIS and are committed to extremely violent actions without necessarily being trained by them." Earlier Saturday, a statement from ISIS' media group, Amaq Agency, said that an ISIS "soldier" carried out the attack in Nice. The statement, which was posted by ISIS supporters, said a security source told the agency "the person who carried out the run-over in Nice, France, is one of the Islamic State soldiers and carried out the operation in response to calls to target nationals of the coalition which is fighting the Islamic State." The wording of the statement -- not claiming the attack as an outright act of ISIS, but noting that the attacker was responding to calls to act against the coalition -- mirrors ISIS' language in statements after the nightclub shooting in Orlando, when it claimed gunman Omar Mateen as a "soldier." Forty-nine people died in the June 12 massacre. French prosecutor François Molins said Friday the attack in Nice fits with calls that "terrorist organizations regularly give out on their videos and elsewhere." As the investigation continued, French authorities were questioning five people Saturday. Among them was Bouhlel's ex-wife, who was taken into custody Friday, the anti-terrorism prosecutor's office said. The other four are men. Bouhlel, a resident of Nice, was born in Tunisia but had a permit to live and work in France. While Cazeneuve said no evidence had yet been found to tie Bouhlel to jihadism, a source close to the investigation told CNN that a phone number belonging to Bouhlel cropped up in a counterterrorism investigation into an associate of Omar Diaby, a 41-year-old Senegalese jihadi who lived in Nice before traveling to Syria. Diaby, who calls himself Omar Omsen, commands a French jihadi battalion in Syria affiliated with Jabhat al Nusra, al Qaeda's branch in Syria. The source said investigators made the link after cross-referencing case files after the attack in Nice. Investigators are looking into the nature of the links between Bouhlel and Diaby's associate, but they cannot rule out that the two were possibly just part of the same social circle. French counterterrorism officials have established that a series of YouTube videos Diaby recorded in Nice in 2012 before he departed for Syria helped motivate a significant number of French extremists to travel to fight in Syria. In May, Diaby revealed in a Skype interview with a French journalist that he had faked his own death in August 2015 to get medical treatment outside Syria. "We have an enemy who is going to continue to strike all the people, all the countries who have freedom as a fundamental value," Hollande said. Bouhlel was shot to death by police after he barreled down the crowded Promenade des Anglais for almost a mile, crushing and hitting people who had gathered to watch the Bastille Day fireworks. More than 200 people were injured, and at least 55 of them were in critical condition Friday. Bouhlel was identified by fingerprints after his identification card was found in the truck, authorities said. He was known to police because of allegations of threats, violence and thefts over the past six years, and he was given a suspended six-month prison sentence this year after being convicted of violence with a weapon, authorities said. Bouhlel's father, who lives in Tunisia, said his son showed signs of mental health issues -- having had multiple nervous breakdowns and volatile behavior, said CNN terrorism analyst Paul Cruickshank. "It was going pretty fast, I guess 60 or 70 kph, and people were screaming and trying to avoid it, and some jumped to the beach side, and it is not small sized, it's a big jump," Faran said. Most people on the boulevard struggled to avoid the truck as it approached. "At that point I thought that these people wouldn't make it, because it was really fast and they were all together like a pack," he said. "I couldn't watch it. I closed my eyes, and I went inside the apartment. Some of my friends did the opposite -- they went outside, when people started screaming, they went and saw this; then they started screaming and crying immediately. I can't imagine what they have seen. "They say they saw bodies flying in the air when the truck hit them." Farfan braced himself to go out on the balcony to see the aftermath. "We saw the first scenes of the bodies, the uncovered bodies, the dead. I saw a bunch of six, seven bodies -- they were stuck to the floor with blood around them. It was horrible to watch."