Colombia's government and FARC rebels announced a ceasefire agreement Wednesday that would end five decades of bloody conflict while negotiators reach a final peace deal. Colombian officials made the announcement in Havana, where the two sides have been negotiating since November 2012 to end the civil war that has killed or displaced hundreds of thousands of people. The ceasefire agreement will be signed Thursday in the Cuban capital by Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos and Timoleon "Timochenko" Jimenez, top commander for the FARC, the Spanish acronym for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, according to a statement from the Colombian government. Presidents Raul Castro of Cuba, Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela and Michelle Bachelet of Chile and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will attend the ceremony, the statement said. The longest-running insurgency in the Western Hemisphere, the FARC sought to emulate the Cuban revolution and install a Marxist-style government in Colombia. Critics accuse the rebels of engaging in drug trafficking and kidnapping to finance their guerrilla war. Billions of dollars in U.S. counterinsurgency aid has helped the Colombian government turn the tide against the FARC, which suffered as top commanders were killed and thousands of foot soldiers abandoned the insurgency. At the beginning of peace talks, FARC rebels proposed a bilateral ceasefire, but Colombian government officials resisted the overture, saying the guerrillas had used previous ceasefires as an opportunity to take over large swaths of the countryside. Santos said Monday that he expected the final peace deal to be reached by July 20. A referendum then would be called for Colombians to vote on whether to accept or reject the agreement. Their fuselages flashing in the sun, two airplanes lazily circled over fields of coca, ready to dump a load of herbicides onto the robust, green bushes used to make cocaine. Rebels waited below. Crouching behind fences, tree stumps and the coca itself, fighters from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, opened up on the two Vietnam-era planes with M-16 and Galil assault rifles, the crackle of automatic weapons fire splitting the afternoon silence.  During the action Friday, witnessed by an Associated Press team accompanying the rebels through the coca fields near the southern village of Penas Coloradas, neither of the U.S.-made OV-10 airplanes was shot down. But the camouflage-clad leftist guerrillas considered it a victory: The unprotected aircraft veered off without releasing their cargo.  President Clinton's visit to Colombia on Wednesday and a $1.3 billion U.S. aid package aim to drive the rebels from the drug fields. Under the plan, 60 U.S. combat helicopters will escort fumigation planes and ferry U.S.-trained anti-narcotics troops into drug-producing plantations that cover vast areas of southern Colombia.  FARC rebels, as well as a rival right-wing paramilitary group, protect the crops of coca and poppy, from which heroin is made. The rebels have vowed to fight the anti-drug offensive.  Critics contend the so-called Push into Southern Colombia, expected to get into full swing next year, will derail fledgling peace talks and draw the United States directly into Colombia's 36-year-old guerrilla war.  U.S. officials insist their only interest is in fighting drugs but express growing concern about the 15,000-strong FARC, which has used proceeds from the drug trade to better arm itself and to dominate a large part of the countryside.  FARC commander Alfonso Cano called the planned offensive a veiled counterinsurgency plan and a symbol of President Andres Pastrana's subservience to Washington.  "The United States needs an excuse to continue to play the role of the world's policeman, and now that excuse is (fighting) drug trafficking," said the bearded rebel leader in an interview in San Vicente del Caguan, a town a four-hour riverboat ride north of Penas Coloradas.  Nationwide, many Colombians support the anti-drug push. But in Colombia's coca-growing regions, hundreds of thousands of poor coca farmers, itinerant harvesters and small-time merchants do not.  In Penas Coloradas, a grimy settlement on the brown and windy Caguan River, 280 miles from the capital Bogota, coca is the economy's driving force and the FARC the only law and order. The rebels take their cut of the cocaine production process while serving as a de facto government. Liquor sales are forbidden between Monday and Friday. Theft and drunkenness are punished. Prostitutes at the town's Great Saigon bar must take AIDS tests.  Before the fumigation planes made their abortive spraying attempt, the local rebel commander — known as Herley — said the coming offensive will provide the FARC with an ample recruiting base among farmhands who could lose their livelihoods as a result.  "How many enemies are created when you take away the food from someone's children" the rebel, a 22-year FARC veteran with long, soiled fingernails and a bloodshot glare, asked as he strode through the coca fields.  Later, as the fumigation planes flew overhead, he rested the barrel of his rifle on a tree stump, aimed at the aircraft, and carefully squeezed off a few rounds.  For the farmers in Penas Coloradas, as in much of the rest of impoverished, rural Colombia, there are few viable alternatives to making a living than growing coca. They are skeptical of government pledges that the anti-drug offensive will be accompanied by loans and other assistance to help them grow legal crops.  "The government doesn't even know we exist," fumed Miguel Hernandez, whose four-acre coca plot was fumigated two times last week, wilting banana trees mixed in with the coca.  Only about a tenth of the U.S. aid plan would provide funds for alternative development projects.  While the cocaine trade nets huge profits for those further up the international drug chain, the small-time farmers who grow coca near Penas Coloradas make very little.  Jose, a farmer who turned to coca four years ago after working for years as a migrant coffee picker, said he earns only about $375 a month in profits off his 12 ½ acres of coca. He didn't give his last name for fear of having problems with the law.  Standing in a wooden shack at a bend in the Caguan River, he intently watched local men commissioned by drug cartels test the purity of his football-sized bag of "coca base" — a semi-processed form of cocaine. One of the men then handed Jose a wad of cash.  "It's not honorable work," Jose said sheepishly. "But here in Colombia we have to eat however we can." The government of Colombia has reached an agreement with FARC rebels in the fight against drug trafficking and cultivation of illicit crops, both sides announced Friday. Colombia is one of the world's top cocaine producers. The rebel group Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia is estimated to make around $500 million from the illicit trade per year, according to the Council on Foreign Relations. "I invite Colombians to maintain confidence in the process, in our negotiating team and that we will continue to do exactly what we said," President Juan Manuel Santos said. He added that because of the agreement, Colombians should have more faith in the peace process. The agreement is part of a complex peace deal with the rebel group aimed at ending the decades-long war. As part of the deal, the government will launch a national program of illegal crop eradication and alternative development. The government also promised to step up its efforts to combat corruption and money laundering, as well as address public health issues related to drug consumption. The president, who is running for re-election, also announced Friday that FARC and the National Liberation Army (ELN) have agreed on a cease-fire during the May 25 presidential elections. "Imagine a Colombia without coke? That is what is at our fingertips if we implement these agreements," Santos said. Colombia's government and leftistárebels announced Wednesday that they have reached a deal on a cease-fire that would be the last major step toward ending Latin America's oldest guerrilla war. President Juan Manuel Santos will travel to Cuba Thursday to unveil details of the agreement with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced he also would be present to witness the signing of the accord. Colombia's conflict has killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions. But a 15-year, U.S.-backed military offensive thinned the rebels' ranks and forced its aging leaders to the negotiating table in 2012. Momentum had been building toward a breakthrough after Santos said this week that he hoped to end a half-century of bloodshed by July 20, marking Colombia's declaration of independence from Spain. But Wednesday's agreement went further than expected, removing all doubt that a final deal is around the corner. In addition to announcing a framework for the cease-fire, both sides said they agreed on how the FARC's estimated 7,000 fighters will demobilize and hand over their weapons, as well as the security guarantees that will be provided to leftist activists after the conflict ends. Negotiators in January tasked the U.N. with monitoring adherence to an eventual cease-fire and resolving disputes emerging from the demobilization. "Tomorrow will be a great day," Santos blasted out on Twitter. "We're working for a Colombia in peace, a dream that's beginning to become reality." The presidents of Cuba, Venezuela and Chile -- the three nations sponsoring the now almost four-year-old peace talks in Havana -- were also expected to attend Thursday's ceremony, and the Obama administration was sending its special envoy to the talks, former diplomat Bernard Aronson. With the latest advances, only few minor pending items remain, the biggest being how the final deal will be ratified and given legal force so that it won't unravel should a more conservative government succeed Santos, who leaves office in 2018. The two sides must also settle on a mechanism for selecting judges who will preside over special peace tribunals evaluating the war crimes of guerrillas as well as the military. The peace talks have been bumpy and extended much longer than Santos or anyone else anticipated. But if a final deal is reached, it would end Latin America's last major insurgency, one accused of being a major supplier of cocaine to the U.S. Still, the much-smaller and more recalcitrant National Liberation Army has a toehold in some areas and could fill the void left by the FARC.á The ELN agreed to a peace process with the government earlier this year but those talks have yet to start because of Santos' insistence the group renounce kidnapping. Santos has vowed to put the FARC deal to a referendum vote so Colombians can express their opinion. Opinion polls show the FARC are widely despised among Colombians and frustration with the rebels has grown as the talks have dragged on, making the task of reconciliation much harder. Reflecting some of that pessimism, midday news broadcasts across Colombia led off not with the progress being made in Havana but another battle of sorts: Wednesday's night semi-final match in the Copa America soccer tournament between Colombia and Chile. Colombia's top rebel group, FARC, announced Monday it will temporarily halt its decades-old battle against government forces starting at midnight as a goodwill gesture amid peace talks with the Colombia government. FARC commander Ivan Marquez announced the unilateral cease-fire and called on the the Colombian government to do the same as he arrived for peace talks at Cuba's Convention Palace in Havana Monday. "Heeding the overwhelming demand for peace from diverse sectors of the country, the FARC secretariat orders guerrilla units across the country to cease military operations and acts of sabotage," Marquez said The rebel cease-fire is scheduled to start Monday night and last until January 20, the rebel group said. It's unlikely the Colombian government will take part in the two-month truce: Bogota has said previously that it will not consider a cease-fire until after a final agreement is reached. FARC had signaled that it would pursue a cease-fire, even before peace talks, now being held in Havana, began in mid-October in Norway. Critics of the move believe it's just an attempt by the rebel group to rebuild its forces. The leftist FARC, or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, has been at war with the government since the 1960s, making it the longest-running insurgency in Latin America. The U.S. State Department, which has listed FARC as a terror group, posted a $5 million reward for the capture of Marquez, whose real name is Luciano Marin Arango. FARC child soldiers on the rise There have been sporadic attempts at peace since the 1980s. The last attempt fell apart in 2002. Then-President Andres Pastrana ceded an area the size of Switzerland to the guerrilla group but ended negotiations after rebels launched a series of attacks across the country in an apparent bid to strengthen their position. But this time, both sides say, they have a more ambitious agenda. "The end of the armed conflict is the precursor to peace. To achieve it, we have to go deep into the transformation of society," said Humberto de la Calle, a representative for the Colombian government. The end of hostilities -- the kidnappings and bombings by the FARC and military operations by the government -- will not usher in peace without a true transformation within the country, he said. Ivan Marquez, a FARC representative, agreed. "We are not the guerrillas that some media make us out to be," he said. "We come to the table with proposals and projects to achieve a definitive peace, a peace that implies a demilitarization of the state and radical socioeconomic reforms that are the foundation of democracy, justice and freedom." The FARC continues to carry out kidnappings and attack security forces, though it has been severely weakened in recent years. Two days after peace talks began in Norway, an apparent FARC rebel attack killed five Colombian soldiers. A large distance remains between the sides. While the Colombian government has said that the FARC could continue to advocate for its positions as a political force, it does not want to negotiate all the group's demands during the peace talks. "This is about creating an agenda for the end of the conflict that allows the FARC to put forth its ideas unaccompanied by weapons, and with guarantees for its transformation to an unarmed political force," de la Calle said.