The short hallway inside El Centro Community College is left in shambles. Ceiling tiles and office walls are mangled. Bullet holes piercing through barriers and doors still visible. Large pieces of hallway walls have been cut out and removed by FBI investigators, including the area near the school's library, where Dallas police say killer Micah Johnson wrote the initials "R.B." in his own blood. It's the hallway where SWAT officers engaged in a violent shootout with Johnson then used a robot carrying explosives to end the standoff. "All the gory stuff is gone," El Centro Community College Police Chief Joseph Hannigan said as he escorted reporters on the same path Johnson followed on July 7, the night of the deadly shootings that killed five police officers and wounded seven other officers in Dallas. Two civilians were also injured. "My personal belief was that he was just going to wing it. I don't think he had any initial plans to enter El Centro, but I don't think he anticipated the response that he got. So he had to adjust on the run," Hannigan said. For nearly two weeks, El Centro Community College has been a crime scene as FBI investigators worked to collect evidence from inside the school and biohazard teams cleaned up the bloody remnants of the standoff. With that work now done, the school's police chief Tuesday walked reporters through how the massacre unfolded. The scene inside that hallway still captures the horrific intensity of that night. "He was brazen enough to just hide behind the walls and open fire," Hannigan said. In the final moments, only about a 30-foot long hallway separated SWAT members and the killer. Hannigan said it appears at least 200 gunshots were exchanged between SWAT officers and the gunman in this area alone during the standoff that lasted several hours. The chunk of the wall where Johnson wrote the "R.B." on the wall is gone, taken by the FBI. Johnson was cornered in an area behind the school's library. SWAT teams had blocked the only two ways out of the space where Johnson was barricaded. SWAT team negotiators tried to communicate with Johnson. Dallas Police Chief David Brown has described the killer as delusional yet in control. "He, basically, just lied to us, playing games, laughing at us, singing, asking how many (officers) did he get and that he wanted to kill some more," Brown told CNN the weekend after the shooting. As negotiators talked to Johnson, tactical teams were preparing to launch a robot equipped with a pound of C-4 explosive down that short hallway. Hannigan said Johnson saw the robot coming and desperately fired at the robot, trying to disable it before the explosive detonated. The robot didn't stop, and police detonated the bomb, killing Johnson on the spot. The carnage started outside on the east side of the community college building around 9 p.m. As Black Lives Matters protesters marched past the school in downtown Dallas, Johnson drove up in a dark SUV. He got out and started a conversation with two Dallas police officers before pulling his weapons and shooting them. Other officers quickly turned toward the shooting scene and exchanged gunfire with Johnson, Hannigan said. Johnson tried to shoot his way into the building through glass doors on the east side but officers inside the school fired back at the killer. "We believe at that point the return fire was so much, he shot out all the Lamar street doors in an effort to escape. But the return gunfire was so much that he started moving down towards the corner," Hannigan said. The next killing was caught on camera from the roof of a hotel across the street. The video shows Johnson gun down an officer who approached and was using a building pillar as a shield. Johnson then turned the corner to reach the north side of the building where he shot his way through glass door entrances and immediately found a staircase and went to the second floor. This is where officers picked up a blood trail and followed the killer's path. Johnson walked through the school's library. It's a surreal scene inside the building, because everything has been left intact since the day of the shooting. Johnson walked right past a table holding an unfinished 1,500-piece puzzle of The Beatles rock band. Inside the school, there were students on the seventh and eighth floors as well as students trapped on the main floor and the basement. On the north side of the building, Johnson now had the upper hand, shooting through windows down at officers on the street. "They were hiding behind their police cars, and he was shooting at anybody that moved," Hannigan said. But it's also the spot where Johnson eventually found himself cornered and trapped. Once officers identified where the shots were coming from, tactical teams moved into place and kept him from escaping. The man who shot dead five police officers in Dallas and wounded seven more was planning an even larger attack, the city's police chief says. Micah Johnson, 25, was angry with the recent killings of black men by police and wanted to kill white officers, police say. Police chief David Brown said he was "convinced" Johnson had wider plans. He told CNN that Johnson, a military veteran, appeared to have practised detonating explosives. Meanwhile, Delphine Johnson, the gunman's mother, told US site TheBlaze.com that he had been "disappointed" by his experience in the US military. "The military was not what Micah thought it would be," she said. "He was very disappointed." Mr Brown also said police were trying to find the significance of the letters "RB" that Johnson had written in his own blood, near where he was killed by a remote detonation by police. Officers were also reading a journal found in Johnson's house that Mr Brown said was proving "hard to decipher". Mr Brown also revealed that during two hours of negotiations last Thursday, the attacker taunted police. "He just basically lied to us - playing games, laughing at us, singing, asking how many [police officers] did he get and that he wanted to kill some more and that there were bombs there." "So there was no progress on the negotiation... I began to feel that it was only at a split second he would charge us and take out many more before we could kill him," Mr Brown added. Johnson launched his attack in Dallas as a protest was taking place against the deaths of black men at the hands of police. Dallas police have given the all clear, hours after security levels were raised at their headquarters in the city. They said they had received an anonymous threat, two days after the killing of five police officers. A nearby parking lot was searched for a "suspicious person" but no-one was found. SWAT officers were earlier deployed at the main building. On Thursday, five white police officers were shot dead by a black man, Micah Johnson, during a protest rally. The march was against the killing of black men by police. Two deaths this week have led to nationwide protests. Dallas police said its officers - using dogs - searched the parking lot but the hunt turned up nothing. In a statement earlier on Saturday, the police said: "The Dallas Police Department received an anonymous threat against law enforcement across the city and has taken precautionary measures to heighten security." An armoured vehicle was moved close to the main HQ in central Dallas and heavily armed officers were seen nearby, according to the Associated Press news agency. But it added that members of the public were still able to walk about freely around the building. The police asked media to stop all live feeds around HQ "for the safety of our officers", the BBC's James Cook reports. The shooting happened late on Thursday during the protest march. Johnson, who was himself killed during the assault, supported black militant groups who encouraged violence against police. Dallas police chief David Brown said Johnson had told a negotiator that he had wanted to kill white people, especially white police officers, because he was angry about the recent shootings of black men by police. Earlier on Saturday, President Barack Obama said the US was "not as divided as some have suggested" in the wake of the shootings involving African-Americans. He said Americans of "all races, all backgrounds", including many of those who were protesting, were outraged by the Dallas killings. As well as the five police officers killed, another seven were injured on Thursday. Two civilians were also hurt. ohnson, 25, who officials say acted alone, was killed by remotely detonated explosives that were sent into a car park where he had taken refuge after the shootings. He was a member of the US Army Reserve from 2009 to 2015 who had served in Afghanistan. Bomb-making material, rifles and a combat journal were found in his home in the Dallas suburb of Mesquite. A number of gun attacks involving police officers and civilians have occurred in other parts of the US in the aftermath of the deaths in Minnesota and Louisiana. Leaders of the Black Lives Matter organisation have condemned the Dallas killings but say planned marches, including a "Weekend of Rage" in Philadelphia, will go ahead.