The armed Israeli police officers stand behind thick concrete barriers that separate Palestinian neighborhoods in East Jerusalem from the center of the city. Young men who want to get past are asked to pull up their pants, lift their T-shirts, turn around and show their IDs. This, say Palestinians, is the face of the occupation. "The occupation sleeps on our chests, on our stomachs," said 63-year-old Khalid Froukh. But many settlers who have set up Jewish outposts in the West Bank don't see themselves as occupiers. They say the security measures are necessary against violence fueled by an "incitement machine" made up of mosques, schools, media and politicians that train Palestinians to hate Jews. Two different viewpoints but one tragic outcome that has repeated itself in a violent cycle every few years. There have been two major Palestinian uprisings in the past 30 years and many more flare ups in between. Observers are warning that the current wave of unrest is driving the region to the verge of another bloody and disastrous phase. "We need to keep the situation from escalating into a religious conflict with potential regional implications," said U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said Tuesday. Since Israel took East Jerusalem and the West Bank from Jordan during a war in 1967, more than half a million Israelis have settled in the areas, often on confiscated Palestinian land. Much of the international community consider these occupied territory. The settlers say they're not settlers; they're living on land that Israel has liberated. "Hebron is the beginning and the cradle and the root and the foundation of Jewish history," said Noam Arnon, one of around 700 Jews who've settled in the heart of Hebron. Recent violence centered around the settlement -- set off by the deadly shooting of a Palestinian man by a Jewish settler who said he was defending himself against a knife attack -- is nothing new, according to Arnon. He points to a museum exhibit dedicated to a massacre in 1929 when Palestinians turned on the local Jewish community, murdering 67 people. "It happened right here against an innocent Jewish community, 40 years before the state of Israel was even established," he said. Palestinians see it differently. At the core of the anger driving the escalating unrest is Israel's decades-long control of East Jerusalem and the West Bank. "Occupation means that you have approximately two and a half million Palestinians living for almost 50 years now under military administration," said Uri Zaki, an Israeli representative of Human Rights Watch. They argue the only way to end the seemingly endless spiral of violence and recrimination is for Israel to pull out of the areas it seized in 1967. Stopping the violence without addressing its causes isn't a long-term solution, they say. "If you have cancer, do you think that Advil can help you?" said Ziad Abu Zayyad, a former Palestinian Authority minister. "It can be a pain relief for a short while, but it will not cure you. You need real medicine to cure you, and the real medicine here is the end of the occupation." Twenty-two years ago, Israel and the Palestinians signed the Oslo Accord, meant to lay a foundation of peace and move ultimately toward a two-state solution. That was in 1993. All these years later, the failure of real progress has many frustrated with negotiations. Uri Karzen, who settled in Hebron more than 30 years ago, doesn't buy the idea of Israel and Palestine coexisting as peaceful neighbors. "The attacks will continue if they think they're going to achieve a Palestinian state," said "Eventually, the Arabs will just have to get used to the idea that we're here to stay," he said. And so it goes. Both sides believe their cause is just. And their dogged determination appears set to spawn yet more violence. Over the past few weeks, violence in the decades long Israeli-Palestinian conflict has flared up. Bloodshed is not unusual in this part of the Middle East but this particular wave of aggression -- stabbings as well as a shooting and driving into crowds -- is very different from rocket attacks or the orchestrated suicide bombings of the past. The attacks have prompted widespread talk of a third Palestinian intifada or uprising. Here's what you need to know. The latest upsurge in violence in Jerusalem started with two Israelis being stabbed to death by a Palestinian in the Old City -- which was followed by a series of stabbings and other attacks. A particular point of contention is the Temple Mount, known to Muslims as the Haram Al-Sharif, in the Old City. In an unwritten arrangement in place since Israel took control of all of Jerusalem in 1967, Jews are not allowed to pray on the Temple Mount, where the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock are situated. Increasingly in recent years, hardline Jewish activists have demanded greater access to the Temple Mount and right-wing politicians have called for rights of Jews to pray there. This has sparked widespread concerns among Palestinians that the status quo is being violated, and will end in the division of the Temple Mount. Over the past few years, tensions have coincided with the Jewish High Holy Days in the autumn. This year, the holiday coincided with the Muslim's Eid-al-Adha holiday and tensions rose even higher. In fact, the security situation in Jerusalem and the West Bank has been more and more tense since 2014 when three Israeli teenage settlers were kidnapped and murdered in the West Bank by militants from Hamas. A few weeks later, Jewish extremists kidnapped and murdered a 17-year-old Palestinian from East Jerusalem. This further inflamed tensions and set off clashes in historically Arab East Jerusalem. A spate of attacks on Israeli civilians by East Jerusalem Palestinians wracked the city later in the autumn. On July 31, in the West Bank, Israeli settlers burned a Palestinian house in a so-called "price-tag attack," killing an 18-month-old toddler and his parents. On October 1, an Israeli couple were shot dead in front of their four children near the Palestinian city of Nablus. Israeli police have arrested a Hamas cell they believe were behind the attack. All this comes against a backdrop of what many Palestinians see as unending, humiliating Israeli occupation in place since the 1967 war when Israel conquered all of Jerusalem, Gaza, the West Bank and the Syrian Golan Heights. Even Israeli intelligence officials are not blaming any of these attacks on any of the Palestinian militant groups or factions like Islamic Jihad or Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades or Hamas. Hamas has praised the attackers, but not claimed responsibility. It seems that many of the attackers are motivated by what they see on Facebook and Twitter where photos and video of attacks are posted. The suicide bombings that were hallmark of the Second Intifada required an infrastructure -- sourcing bombers, making and providing them with explosives and getting them into place to carry out the attacks. Israeli forces were able to break up much of this infrastructure by the end of that uprising. Israel has invested a huge amount of money in developing an intelligence network -- including collaborators and informers -- in East Jerusalem and the West Bank, building a separation barrier (dubbed the "Apartheid Wall" by the Palestinians) around the West Bank to stop potential suicide bombers, and developing the Iron Dome missile defense system to intercept rockets firing out Gaza. But, it's easy to buy a knife in Jerusalem. Knifings are the ultimate low-tech response to Israel's high-tech, high-cost security. They are a simple way to accomplish the same thing the suicide bombers did: scare the hell out of ordinary Israelis. Ordinary Israelis are in a state of alarm. They are taking measures for protection: there are dramatically fewer people on the streets. Here, Israelis are reconsidering the routes they take to work -- driving rather than taking the bus or light rail. There are more Israelis walking around with handguns and more people applying for weapon licenses. Jerusalem's Mayor Nir Barkat called on licensed gun owners to carry them. Palestinians are also scared; many more of them have died in reprisal attacks and shootings by security forces. But there is bitterness and hatred, the likes of which I've never seen. During the Second Intifada, which ran from 2000-2005, there was a lot of fear and mutual distrust but there was still a memory of when people did coexist going back to the early 1990s. For the younger generation of Palestinians and Israelis, that's absolutely disappeared. After the Second Intifada and three wars in Gaza all they associate the other side with is violence. In short, a lot of words and not much action. Politically, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is under a lot of pressure to respond more aggressively. One politician told him to "stop stuttering and start acting." An opinion poll published over the weekend found that 73% of Israelis are dissatisfied with the government's handling of the latest wave of violence. They want a harsher response to the attacks. On the Palestinian side, leader Mahmoud Abbas, now 80 years old, doesn't have a lot of public support. He's seen as old, ineffective and soft on Israel. He has called for de-escalation, but other Palestinian leaders don't seem willing to follow his line. The peace process went into intensive care during the Second Intifada and successive U.S. presidents have time and time again made attempts to revive it. But under Ariel Sharon, who was prime minister from 2001 to early 2006, and Benjamin Netanyahu from 2009 until now, the Israeli government has been at best lukewarm about the peace process. The last attempt to re-launch the peace process by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in the summer of 2013 went nowhere. A major stumbling block is Israel's continued building of settlements in the West Bank. Estimates by Israeli human rights group B'Tselem say there are almost 550,000 settlers living in exclusively Jewish communities in the West Bank. The settlements are considered illegal under international law, something Israel disputes. Kerry has said he will travel to the Middle East to help calm the situation, although given the bitterness between U.S. President Barack Obama and Netanyahu over his opposition to the Iran nuclear deal it's questionable as to how diplomatically involved the U.S. will want to get. t's unlikely. It's an outburst that will probably subside. The Second Intifada took a huge toll on Palestinians' economy and way of life. Many Palestinian youth are too young to remember the darkest days of the uprising -- but their parents remember it, and don't want to go through it again, even if they resent Israel's 48-year-old occupation. They don't have the energy to go through years of violence and closures and arrests and deaths and funerals. My worry is that these outbursts will become more and more frequent. They will die down quickly but the mutual hatred will only deepen. Palestinians failed to agree on a truce offer to Israel on Sunday after three days of talks, setting back the Palestinian prime minister's hopes for a halt in violence to jump start the stalled U.S.-backed "road map" peace plan. Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which have carried out most homicide attacks against Israel, resisted intense pressure from Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia (search) and the top Egyptian mediator and refused a full cease-fire. The two groups would agree only to a limited truce, ending attacks on civilians in Israel but not on Jewish settlers or Israeli soldiers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Israel said it would accept only a comprehensive halt. "There's no half-way cease-fire," said Raanan Gissin, a spokesman for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon (search). He said Israel is willing to stop shooting if there was a total Palestinian truce. An official from Islamic Jihad and other Palestinian delegates said a further meeting was planned but no date for it was set. Egypt (search) had called together the Palestinian factions -- more than a dozen, ranging from Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement to the Islamic groups and smaller leftist movements -- in hopes of producing a halt to all attacks. Egyptian Intelligence Chief Gen. Omar Suleiman wanted to present the truce to Washington next week in a broad proposal that could win U.S. backing and put pressure on Israel. But Qureia, who joined the talks Sunday in the hopes of bridging the gap, left the Egyptian capital, and several delegates acknowledged the talks produced no concrete results. "There are disagreements about the nature of a cease-fire," Maher Taher, a senior delegate for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, told The Associated Press. "The factions have different positions on the issue." Even when Qureia and Suleiman lay on the pressure in a three-hour meeting Sunday, Hamas and Islamic Jihad refused to buckle in their rejection of the broad halt. The two groups have carried out most of the homicide bombings against Israel that have killed hundreds during more than three years of violence. "Hamas is not ready to make a comprehensive cease-fire. This is final," senior Hamas official Mohammed Nazzal said after talks ended Sunday. The militant factions also rejected giving Qureia authority to speak for them in any negotiations with Israel. "We are not ready to give them authorization to sign a new agreement," Nazzal said. The two groups said a more limited halt to attacks on civilians in Israel also depended on Israel's stopping its military actions. "Let Abu Ala (Qureia) talk with Sharon and ask him if he is ready to make a cease-fire. If Sharon is ready to make a cease-fire, we will study it," Nazzal said. "It was difficult for us and other factions to accept a new truce without guarantees from the Israeli side, because the previous truce failed in the same way, because of no Israeli guarantees," said Nafez Azzam, an Islamic Jihad spokesman in Gaza. The Cairo session "ended with the hope of holding another meeting but it hasn't been agreed on a date," Azzam said. In June, the Palestinians declared a cease-fire on attacks within Israel that also was negotiated in Egypt. Israel was not formally part of that truce, and it collapsed after seven weeks, with Israel attacking Palestinians and Palestinians resuming homicide bombings. In the end, delegates said the Cairo meetings would only produce a final statement, but no deal. "The statement will have no mention of refraining from attacks on civilians, cease-fire or authorizing" Qureia to negotiate with the Israelis, said Samir Ghosheh, head of the Palestinian Struggle Front. In exchange for the full truce, Egypt and Fatah were demanding that Israel stop building settlements, pull its troops out of Palestinian areas re-occupied during the uprising and halt construction of its so-called security barrier along the borders with Palestinian areas, which juts into Palestinian land. Essentially, their plan would have met much of the criteria of the "road map." Sharon said Israel is still interested in a cease-fire. "The solution is that if there is total quiet and there won't be terror, Israel will make every effort to abstain from its activity against terrorists," he said. He made the comments before the Cairo talks ended, in reaction to reports the Palestinians were considering offering the limited cease-fire only. No deadly homicide bombings have occurred in Israel for more than two months. The Palestinian homicide attacks have targeted buses, cafes, restaurants, shopping malls and outdoor markets inside Israeli territory, drawing condemnation from the international community as well as from the Palestinian Authority. Israel's army has retaliated harshly -- using tanks, warplanes and helicopters on Palestinians -- and reoccupied most of the Palestinian cities in the West Bank and Gaza. Since the uprising started in September 2000, 2,562 people have been killed on the Palestinian side and 898 on the Israeli side.