he police shooting of an African-American caregiver, who was lying in the street trying to help an autism patient, was accidental, according to the local police union representing the North Miami officer. The officer had intended to shoot the patient, whom he thought posed a danger, but accidentally shot the caregiver instead, said John Rivera, the President of the Dade County Police Benevolent Association. Charles Kinsey, a behavior therapist, was shot Monday by police -- an incident which has sparked outrage. Footage released by Kinsey's attorney showed his client lying on the ground holding both hands in the air, next to a 23-year-old man with autism. Rivera offered an explanation Thursday, saying that the police officer opened fire because he thought the white individual, whom they later learned is a man with autism, was going to harm Kinsey. "This wasn't a mistake in the sense that the officer shot the wrong guy or he thought that Kinsey was the bad guy," he said in a press conference Thursday. "The movement of the white individual made it look like he was going to discharge a fire arm into Mr. Kinsey and the officer discharged trying to strike and stop the white man and unfortunately, he missed the white male and shot Mr. Kinsey by accident." Rivera said that the video footage of the incident was "being portrayed poorly." Kinsey is hospitalized with a gunshot wound to his right leg after two or three shots were fired, according to his attorney. "Mr. Kinsey did everything right, let's be real clear about that," Rivera said. He said that the police officer involved in the shooting "wishes nothing but the best for Mr. Kinsey and the officer is praying for his speedy recovery as are we." Kinsey told CNN affiliate WSVN that after the shooting, he was flipped over and handcuffed. A video released by the attorney showed Kinsey lying in the road, on his stomach and handcuffed. Both men were seen flat on the ground with two officers standing near them. According to his attorney Hilton Napoleon II, Kinsey was on the ground for 20 minutes before an ambulance arrived. North Miami police said the officer opened fire after attempting to negotiate. Kinsey and his attorney said that the police explanation doesn't add up. State authorities said they're investigating the incident. The unidentified officer has been placed on administrative leave and he issued a statement in form of a text message, which was read aloud to the media by Rivera. "I took this job to save lives and help people," according to the officer's text statement. "I did what I had to do in a split-second to accomplish that, and hate to hear others paint me as something I'm not." A 911 call about an armed man threatening suicide drew officers to the scene just after 5 p.m. Monday, North Miami police Chief Gary Eugene told reporters. "Our officers responded to the scene with that threat in mind. We had witness statements that there was a gun. We had a 911 call with that same information," Eugene said Thursday. "However, I want to make it clear, there was no gun recovered." Kinsey told WSVN that his patient was holding a toy truck, not a firearm. He said he tried to explain the situation to officers. Cell phone footage showed Kinsey lying in the street with his hands in the air. "All he has is a toy truck," he shouted. "I am a behavior therapist at a group home." Rivera, the president of the local police union, said that the officers had not heard what Kinsey was yelling. Kinsey said the footage, released by his attorney, showed the moment Monday when he tried to persuade North Miami police not to harm his patient. He asked his patient to be still and lie down. "Please be still ... get down ... lay on your stomach," Kinsey says in the video. The man beside him rocks back and forth. "I was more worried about him than myself," Kinsey told CNN affiliate WSVN-TV in Miami. "As long as I've got my hands up, they're not gonna shoot me, that's what I'm thinking," Kinsey said. "Wow, was I wrong." So far, Napoleon said, video of the shooting itself hasn't surfaced. A homeless man made the 911 call that brought police to the convenience store where Alton Sterling was shot dead, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN on Thursday. Sterling was selling CDs early Tuesday outside the Triple S Food Mart in Baton Rouge, the source said, when the homeless man approached him and asked for money. The man was persistent, and Sterling showed him his gun, the source said. "I told you to leave me alone," Sterling told the man, according to the source. The homeless man then used his cell phone to call 911. The details about the 911 call shed new light into the Baton Rouge police's high-profile fatal shooting of Sterling, a 37-year-old black man. A graphic cell phone video of the shooting was shared widely on social media, quickly sparking local protests and drawing national attention. Federal authorities have taken charge of the investigation. Sterling was shot outside the Baton Rouge convenience store after an encounter with two police officers. The officers can be seen in the video on top of him before shots were fired. Local civic leaders and Sterling's loved ones have promised to find out what happened. "I, for one, will not rest," Quinyetta McMillon, the mother of one of Sterling's children, said Wednesday, "and will not allow ya'll to sweep him in the dirt." The 15-year-old son of her and Sterling stood by his mother's side, sobbing. A criminal investigation, led by the U.S. Department of Justice, is underway in Sterling's death, Gov. John Bel Edwards said Thursday night at a prayer vigil in Baton Rouge. The FBI and state police also will be involved, he said. A federal civil rights investigation also will conducted. Edwards dismissed any questioning of Louisiana's decision to hand over the investigation to the Justice Department. "We're not abdicating anything," the governor said, adding that "we're making the best decisions to make sure that the situation remains under control here in Baton Rouge and that we don't experience any more upheaval ... in our communities here in Baton Rouge and around Louisiana." One of the crucial next steps will be to determine what happened before the confrontation ensued Tuesday. Authorities said the officers were responding to the 911 report of a man with a gun. A source close to the investigation told CNN the 911 caller said Sterling was "brandishing a gun." A law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN that the officers pulled a gun from Sterling's body at the scene. No further details were provided on the type of firearm. Abdullah Muflahi, the owner of the Triple S Food Mart, told CNN he wasn't aware of any incident Tuesday that would have spurred such a call. But he's sure the shooting was caught on his store's surveillance cameras, though he hasn't seen it. Police took the video later Tuesday, he told CNN. There also is police body camera footage of the shooting -- even though the cameras were dislodged -- Baton Rouge police Lt. Johnny Dunham told reporters Wednesday. The cameras continued to record, he added. A law enforcement source told CNN that the cameras fell off during the scuffle. Investigators said they'll review multiple videos of the shooting, and they're canvassing for witnesses. Authorities haven't said what those police videos or other surveillance footage of the scene show, including the lead-up to what the public has already seen or the possible weapon-brandishing incident. The source involved in the investigation told CNN that the other videos are not nearly as clear as the bystander videos. Together Baton Rouge, a community group, held a press conference Thursday, applauding the Justice Department for jumping on an investigation and urging the probe to be as broad as possible. The Rev. Lee Wesley, pastor of the Community Bible Baptist Church, and another community leader, Edgar Cage of the Episcopal Diocese of Louisiana, said they hope that any investigation goes beyond just focusing on possible civil rights violations and explores other facets, including systemic problems on the local police force. Attorneys for McMillon, the mother of Sterling's son, are demanding "transparency." "Our primary mission is to provide this grieving family with the answers they are seeking regarding the senseless shooting death of Alton Sterling. Thanks to multiple videos that captured the horrific incident, we know far more than we typically would, but many questions still remain," attorneys L. Chris Stewart and Justin Bamberg said in a statement. The two said they have handled other "high-profile tragedies at the hands of law enforcement." "We appreciate the hard work and dedication of the vast majority of members of law enforcement. But when they fail to follow their extensive training and unnecessarily take a life, they must be held accountable. No police officer should be above the law." As Philando Castile's head slumps backward while he lies dying next to her, Diamond Reynolds looks into the camera and explains a Minnesota police officer just shot her fiancé four times. The nation is, by now, accustomed to grainy cell phone videos of officer-involved shootings, but this footage from Falcon Heights, outside Minneapolis, is something different, more visceral: a woman live-streaming a shooting's aftermath with the police officer a few feet away, his gun still trained on her bloody fiancé. "He let the officer know that he had a firearm and he was reaching for his wallet and the officer just shot him in his arm," Reynolds said as she broadcast the details of Wednesday's evening shooting on Facebook. Castile, an African-American, was a school nutrition services supervisor who was popular among his colleagues and students, according to his employer. He had been pulled over for a broken taillight, Reynolds explained on the Facebook video. He told the officer he was armed and had a concealed carry permit, she said. Her daughter, 4, was in the back seat. As she speaks, Castile's wrists are crossed. Blood covers the bottom of his white T-shirt sleeve and a large area around his sternum and left rib cage. Perhaps in shock or agony, he peers emptily upward. At one point, he moans in pain as she describes the situation.