A gunman who pledged allegiance to ISIS opened fire early Sunday morning in a packed Orlando nightclub, killing 50 people and wounding at least 53 more in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack Sunday afternoon via its Amaq news agency, Reuters reported. Amaq said an "Islamic State fighter" carried out the assault. It was not clear, however, if the shooting was actually directed by the terror group or only inspired by it. The attack in Orlando at Pulse, which bills itself as "the hottest gay bar" in the city and was packed with more than 300 people for "Latin Night," was reported minutes after 2 a.m. Sunday. It ended hours later when police stormed the building and killed the shooter. Dozens of partygoers remained hostage in the club for several hours after the initial shooting, prompting SWAT teams to rush inside. Shortly after 6 a.m. local time, Orlando police tweeted that the gunman had been killed. Authorities said there was not believed to be any further threat to the area. "We know enough to say this was an act of terror and an act of hate," President Obama said in a speech from the White House on Sunday, cautioning that it was still early in the investigation. House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Rep. Adam Schiff said in a statement that the timing and location of the attack and information coming from local authorities indicated "an ISIS-inspired act of terrorism." "The fact that this shooting took place during Ramadan and that ISIS leadership in Raqqa has been urging attacks during this time, that the target was an LGBT night club during Pride, and – if accurate – that according to local law enforcement the shooter declared his allegiance to ISIS, indicates an ISIS-inspired act of terrorism," Schiff said. "Whether this attack was also ISIS-directed, remains to be determined. I’m confident that we will know much more in the coming hours and days." The gunman, Omar Mir Seddique Mateen, was heard shouting "Allah Akbar" while engaging officers, law enforcement sources told Fox News. Mateen also called 911 during the shooting to pledge allegiance to ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, Fox News reported. Mateen was interviewed three times by FBI agents -- twice in 2013, once in 2014 -- as part of two separate investigations, FBI Assistant Special Agent in Charge Ron Hopper said. However, both inquiries proved inconclusive and the cases were closed. Mateen was not under surveillance or the subject of an active investigation at the time of the shooting, Hopper said. The 2013 investigation was related to comments Mateen allegedly made to a co-worker "alleging possible terror ties." FBI agents were unable to "verify the substance" of his comments, Hopper said. Mateen was also interviewed in 2014 due to his ties to an American man who later drove an explosive-laden truck into a restaurant in Syria for an Al Qaeda affiliate. Mateen and the suicide bomber, Monar abu Salha, attended the same mosque, however, the FBI determined their contact "was minimal," Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Mike McCaul told Fox News. Mateen was a U.S. citizen, Rep. Alan Grayson said during a Sunday morning news conference, though that was "not true of other family members of his." Mateen, 29, lived in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was born in New York to parents of Afghan origin and was a Muslim, Fox News confirmed. Mateen was married in 2009 to a woman who was born in Uzbekistan, according to the couple's marriage license, but the two divorced in 2011. "He was not a stable person," the ex-wife, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The Washington Post. "He beat me. He would just come home and start beating me up because the laundry wasn’t finished or something like that." A mortgage form from 2013 lists Noor Salman as his wife and Mateen also had a 3-year-old son. Mateen appears to have had no criminal record. A licensed security officer, Mateen also had a statewide firearms license. He purchased two guns -- a handgun and a long gun -- legally during the week before the shooting, an ATF official said. The FBI was scouring Mateen's cellphone and electronic devices on Sunday afternoon to identify any possible terrorist connections. This includes searching for any traces of propaganda, scrubbing of his web browsing history, and running down communications with individuals via social media and mobile messaging apps. As victims poured through their doors, Orlando Regional Medical Center officials called in six trauma surgeons, including a pediatric surgeon, Dr. Michael Cheatham said. Many of the wounded were "critically ill" due to their injuries, Cheatham said, and the hospital was trying to reach out to their families. "I think we will see the death toll rise," Cheatham told The Associated Press. Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency in Orange County following the attack and asked for a moment of silence throughout the country at 6 p.m. on Sunday. "This is an attack on our people," Scott tweeted around 11:40 a.m. "It's an attack on Orlando. It's an attack on FL. It's an attack on America. It's an attack on all of us." Chief John Mina of the Orlando Police Department said officers were initially engaged in a gun battle outside the club before the suspect, armed with a handgun and "assault-type rifle," went back into the building, where more shots were fired. He said the gunman then took several hostages. "It appears he was organized and well-prepared," Mina said. Officials said Mateen had some communication with police during this standoff, though they did not reveal what was said. Eleven officers were involved in raiding the nightclub, and one officer was injured, according to Banks. The injured officer was hit by a bullet and his Kevlar helmet saved his life, Banks said. A hotline for victims' families was set up at 407-246-4357. Identities of victims were being released at cityoforlando.net/victims after family members had been notified. Witnesses in the club reported mass chaos after hearing several shots ring out inside the nightclub. Pulse posted on its own Facebook page around 2 a.m.: "Everyone get out of pulse and keep running." It's owner later said in statement that she was "devastated by the horrific events that have taken place today. Pulse, and the men and women who work there, have been my family for nearly 15 years. From the beginning, Pulse has served as a place of love and acceptance for the LGTQ community.  I want to express my profound sadness and condolences to all who have lost loved ones," Barbara Roma. Mina Justice was outside the club early Sunday trying to contact her 30-year-old son Eddie, who texted her when the shooting happened and asked her to call police. He told her he ran into a bathroom with other club patrons to hide. He then texted her: "He's coming." "The next text said: 'He has us, and he's in here with us,'" she said. "That was the last conversation." Jon Alamo said he was at the back of one of the club's rooms when a man holding a weapon came into the front of the room. "I heard 20, 40, 50 shots," Alamo said. "The music stopped." Club-goer Rob Rick said it happened around 2 a.m., just before closing time. "Everybody was drinking their last sip," he said. Newly released police reports detail the accounts of officers in Orlando who rushed to the scene of the deadliest shooting in modern U.S history. An officer identified only as C. Reynolds reported seeing people running and screaming as bullets ripped through the concrete walls of Pulse nightclub in the predawn hours of June 12. Another officer, Michael Ragsdale, said, "Once I entered into the club, I noticed about 60 victims lying on the floor." With blood-soaked bodies covering the dance floor, first responders continued to search for the active shooter. "I remember feeling hands grab my ankles as I walked by the victims as they were asking for help," Ragsdale said. The 71-page document released Monday details the officer accounts from Pulse, where shooter Omar Mateen killed 49 people and wounded 53 others. "I heard several gunshots from inside the club but I was unable to pinpoint where the shooter/shooting was coming from," Officer James Falbo Jr. said. Off-duty Orlando police Officer James Hyland was working private security when he heard the call over his radio. He drove his pickup into the parking lot and began loading the wounded into it, turning the truck into a makeshift ambulance. "I covered officers as they lifted the deceased and badly wounded persons from within the club and from the south side of Pulse into the truck," said an officer identified only by the last name of Austin. Austin, who said he was covered in blood from his fingertips to his elbows, said he got down on his hands and knees to comfort one victim in the back of the truck. "Stay with me, I am here with you, you're safe now!" Austin said, looking into the victim's eyes. It took the National Park Service 46 years to memorialize New York's Stonewall uprising in memory of gay liberation; Pulse is being memorialized in Orlando much faster and by a much larger community. What a difference 47 years makes. The Orange County Regional History Center moved Tuesday to preserve the 49 crosses made by Greg Zanis, an Illinois carpenter moved by the June 12 massacre at Pulse nightclub, along with thousands of mementos laid as tributes to the victims in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. "To all those who are struggling to recover, our entire community stands with you," Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs said at the ceremony. "We are showing the world that this community will not be divided." "We stand in unity with our LGBTQ community. We stand in unity with our Hispanic community. We stand in unity with all members of Orange County." The massacre of 49 people took place a month ago when American-born Omar Mateen started shooting in the club, which saw itself as a gay sanctuary, during Latin Night shortly before the club closed on a Sunday morning. Many of the dead were Hispanic. Pulse strove to be more than the hottest party scene; the venue also served as a gathering spot for the LGBT community and educational events. The club has worked with organizations ranging from Breast Cancer Awareness and Make A Wish to Come out with Pride and Gay Games Orlando 2018. "Our mission at Pulse is to continue to raise the bar of awareness and be a part of our community in any way possible," the website said the night of the shooting. Before he was killed the morning of the massacre, the barricaded Mateen called 911 to pledge allegiance to ISIS and other jihadist terrorist groups FBI Director James Comey said investigators were "highly confident" the 29-year-old gunman, who had been investigated and cleared for terrorist links by the FBI, was self-radicalized through the Internet. Mateen's electronic devices showed searches for jihadist propaganda, including videos of ISIS beheadings and of Anwar al-Awlaki, an influential American-born imam who worked as a spokesman for al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and was killed in 2011, according to one official. ISIS sympathizers praised the attack on pro-ISIS forums, while the official online ISIS radio channel Al-Bayan described it as a "raid on a crusader gathering" carried out by "one of the caliphate's soldiers in America." The city of Orlando -- gay and straight -- pulled together with supporters across the globe in the immediate aftermath of the attack. Residents turned out en masse a week afterward. There was a formal ceremony at the Cathedral Church of St. Luke, where the bell tolled once for each victim, and at an impromptu vigil at nearby Lake Eola Park, attended by an estimated 50,000 people. The mass gathering culminated a week of vigils around the world. "It was the LBGTQ and Hispanic community that was targeted, and it was hateful and it was public," said Chelsea Frost, an organizer of the Lake Eola vigil. "And I think it has to be public for the rest of the community to stand up and say, 'We're not OK with it, and we're going to get behind them and provide them with the support and strength they need. We love them so we will conquer that hate with love.' "The crosses are being taken to a climate controlled environment to be preserved until a permanent memorial can be created. The history center also will preserve some of the other tributes left at makeshift memorials around the city -- letters, notes, signs and other tokens -- for the 49 killed and the approximately 50 injured during the attack. The city of Orlando has announced other plans to ensure the dead aren't forgotten. It plans a paver garden as a permanent memorial. The names of the victims will be on stones placed around Lake Beauty Park outside the Orlando Regional Medical Center where the crosses had been placed. Nine victims died at the hospital, where 28 operations were preformed on victims in the first 24 hours after the attack and 71 surgeries related to the attack have been performed to date, hospital CEO David Strong said. Four victims remain hospitalized, Strong said. The exact nature of the future county memorial is not determined, said Orange County Regional History Center Director Michael Perkins. But the power of the crosses, which Zanis had placed outside the medical center after driving them 1,200 miles from Aurora, Illinois, was indisputable, at least for many people, and especially for one mother. Mayra Alvear, whose daughter Amanda was killed in the attack, was overwhelmed by emotion as she watched the crosses gathered Tuesday and helped pick up her daughter's cross and load it into the truck. For her, the crosses' new home exemplified a beloved community. "Everything was done with respect and honor," she said. "Love wins. Love, no hate."