Brazilian officials said Tuesday they were closely following the investigation into the explosions at the Boston Marathon as they consider whether to change security measures for next year's World Cup and the 2016 Olympics. But a top official with FIFA, soccer's world governing body, said his organization was already planning tougher security for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil in light of the Boston attack. FIFA Secretary-General Jerome Valcke said during a visit to Haiti on Tuesday that the measures would include secret service agents, police officers, military and Interpol. Valcke also said a perimeter adding a second layer of security protection would be set up around Brazil's stadiums, with inspections of everyone passing through. As during the last World Cup in South Africa, a satellite will provide surveillance over Brazil, he said. "As you can imagine with what happened in Boston, (security) will be even ...  stronger," Valcke said at a news conference in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. "We will push the limit to make sure that we have the security, from the beach, to the airport, to the stadium." Valke, who was in the Caribbean country as part of a delegation led by FIFA President Sepp Blatter, said the soccer organization will work with police departments from all 32 countries participating in the 2014 World Cup and will draw on security measures adopted during the 2010 event in South Africa. While Brazil has never been a target of international terrorism, Monday's attack in Boston underscored how vulnerable big sporting events can be, and Brazil's foreign minister stressed that "all necessary measures" would be taken to make sure the upcoming mega-events are safe. Brazil is also two months away from hosting the Confederations Cup, the World Cup warm-up tournament. "We are confident there will be measures which will guarantee the security of the events," Antonio Patriota told reporters in the capital, Brasilia, adding that authorities here were awaiting the conclusions of the investigation into the two Boston blasts. Alexandre Castilho, a spokesman for the government department that oversees safety during major events, stressed that no changes to security plans had been made, but didn't rule out future changes. "It would be too soon to change our strategy, especially because not even the American government has definite conclusions about what happened in Boston," Castilho said. "After hearing the first conclusions of the investigation in Boston we will start understanding if there is something that Brazil can learn from the case and incorporate it into our strategy ahead of the upcoming events. It could be something very useful for us, but it could be an isolated event, too, specific to the American scenario." Castilho stressed that even before the Boston explosions, Brazilian officials had been preparing for a possible terrorist attack as part of its overall security strategy for upcoming events, including World Youth Day, a Roman Catholic pilgrimage to Rio de Janeiro that's expected to be attended by Pope Francis and as many as 2.5 million visitors in late July. The 2016 Rio Olympic committee said security was a "top priority," while FIFA underscored its confidence in Brazilian authorities' ability to handle security for both the Confederations Cup and the World Cup. "Safety and security is one of the most important matters in the preparation of any major event," the Lausanne, Switzerland-based FIFA said in a statement before Valke's news conference in Haiti. "FIFA has full confidence in the Brazilian authorities and their developed security concept for both the FIFA Confederations Cup and FIFA World Cup which encapsulate any potential risks." Although the federal government is in charge of providing security for both the June 15-30 Confederations Cup and the World Cup, Rio de Janeiro state personnel will also provide support, state officials said in a statement Tuesday. Rio state has already trained 833 officers to take part in the events, preparing them for situations such as terrorist attacks, bombings and chemical attacks. More than 4,500 are expected to be trained before the events. Officials here have provided few concrete details about the mega-events security strategy, said Christopher Gaffney, a professor at Rio's Federal University. Not even the budget for security operations at the World Cup has been officially announced, though Brazilian news reports put it at around $900 million, mostly paid for by the federal government. Gaffney said he anticipated the budget might be increased because of the Boston attack, to allow for police reinforcements at sensitive areas during the World Cup. An increase in the use of drones to provide surveillance might also result, he said. Brazil has already purchased four Israeli-made drones to help during the Confederations Cup. Under current plans, armed military police officers would be responsible securing a perimeter around soccer stadiums, while FIFA would handle safety inside the venues, largely using private security guards equipped with non-lethal weapons. "The main issue of concern up till now has been crowd control and also falsification of tickets," said Gaffney, who specializes in studying mega-events. He said that would likely change in the wake of Boston. "I think the international federations might start asking questions about the concrete security plans here." Ignacio Cano, a professor in the social sciences department at the State University of Rio de Janeiro, said he doubted the Boston attack would have much of an effect on security planning in Brazil. "Terrorism is always a factor in planning for any major event, but Brazil and the United States don't face the same level of risk. Brazil has never been a target of international terrorism, so I doubt that it will become a major factor here," Cano said. He added that during the World Cup, security could be beefed up for qualifying teams from countries considered terrorist threat. Officials in Rio de Janeiro have made major strides in reducing drug-related violence in recent years, largely thanks to the strategy of taking over hillside "favela" slums where criminal gangs long ruled. But last month's gang rape of an American student inside a public transit van has raised new questions about the city's preparedness to ensure the safety of the hundreds of thousands of people visiting for the World Cup and Olympics. Last Sunday's shooting deaths of two fans on their way to an event at a World Cup stadium in northeastern Brazil has added to the jitters. Rival supporters were suspected in the killings, which happened about three miles from the Arena Fonte Nova in the city of Fortaleza. The local organizing committee said that "work is being done by the police and the army in many areas of security," adding that "we are not concerned with that for the Confederations Cup." Health concerns prompt some to say they won't show up. A spate of violence spurs calls for stepped-up security. And some worry stadiums might not be finished before the opening ceremony. Serious questions are looming over whether Rio de Janeiro really will be ready to host the Summer Olympics in less than a month. If this sounds familiar, it should. Fears over problems ruining the Olympics have become as much a part of the run-up to the Games as scenes of athletes handing off the iconic torch as the competition nears. Here's a look at some of the concerns people were talking about before past Olympics around the world -- and what ended up happening once the Games got started: The Belgian city was awarded the Games to honor the suffering the country had faced during World War I. But there was a flip side; organizers didn't have enough time to clean up wartime rubble. The stadium wasn't finished. Athletes slept on cots in crowded rooms. And not many people attended the events, since few were able to afford tickets, according to Encyclopedia Brittanica. But despite the hiccups, the competition went ahead as planned, with the Olympic flag flying overhead for the first time With a record number of condoms allocated and air-conditioners in every bedroom, Rio's athletes village starts welcoming Olympians on Sunday. The new apartment towers built to house 11,000 athletes and 6,000 coaches during Rio's Games are being called basic, even austere. But when you step out on the balcony of one of the 3,604 apartments, the complex -- with its swimming pools, tennis courts and bike lanes -- looks downright five-star. "The athletes are going to have everything they could possibly wish for during the Games," said Paul Ramler, founder of RSG events, which has been supplying furniture for athletes' villages since Sydney 2000. "I've never seen anything like this during all my years at the Games." Local organizers describe the 31 17-story towers as a "city within a city" complete with a 24-hour cafeteria, beauty salon and florist. The rooms themselves are furnished with the basics: metal beds, bedside tables and disposable wardrobes made with recycled fabric. Ramler said the idea was to make the furniture sustainable but also inexpensive in keeping with Rio's bid to provide low-budget Games. The complex was built with private money and the developers are already looking for buyers post-Olympics. The main entrance is heavily guarded and equipped with metal detectors. Unlike in recent Games, there are no TVs in the apartments. Organizers did finally agree to install air conditioners in the bedrooms to allay fears over the mosquito-borne Zika virus, despite the expected cool temperatures during the games, which fall during Rio's winter. The opening ceremony is scheduled for August 5. According to Ramler, the apartments are equipped with 13,000 toilet seats, 275,000 clothes hangers and 18,500 beds that can be extended in length for taller athletes. The spartan bathrooms sport plastic shower curtains and a single oval mirror, but no drawers or cupboards to store the 450,000 condoms that will be distributed to athletes -- equivalent to 42 per person. "I guess they're going stick those in the bedside tables," Ramler said. As is often the case before the Olympics begin, the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Games have been besieged with harrowing doubts about the host city's readiness and ability to stage the colossal sports event. But never has the Olympic apprehension been so grave, nor has the distress been spread across so many fronts as what Rio faces. The irony is that the most discussed concern—fears about the Zika virus, which will keep many of the world's marquee golfers and other athletes from participating—may well turn out to be the least of Rio's Olympic problems. Yet even if predictions prove true that the spread of mosquito-borne Zika will abate as South America shifts into winter, many sky-high hurdles remain. Some appear insurmountable and potentially dangerous to athletes and fans alike at this late stage, raising the possibility this Olympics could suffer the most debilitating problems ever seen at a global sports event. The International Olympic Committee is standing by Rio's organizers, issuing a statement July 11 saying all 44 competition venues have passed tests and that all will be ready when athletes arrive. But the IOC statement didn't address the swirling mess of raw sewage that still pours into Guanabara Bay, where a drug-resistant super bacteria has been found in the waters where sailors, triathletes and distance swimmers will compete. And the most dreadful reminder of Rio's polluted waters washed ashore June 29 when human body parts were found near the beach volleyball venue. There certainly is equal angst on land, most of it regarding street crime in a nation that has 21 cities that rank among the world's most dangerous. Contrary to the IOC's rosy outlook, Rio's acting governor, Francisco Dornelles, recently issued a warning that the Olympics could be a "big failure" because of budget problems that could leave security underfunded, an opinion that Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes echoed. Vicious and lethal street crime is so prevalent in Rio that even former Brazilian soccer star Rivaldo posted this warning on Instagram in May, which translates to the following, per the Associated Press: "Things are getting uglier here every day. I advise everyone with plans to visit Brazil for the Olympics in Rio to stay in their country of origin. Your life will be in danger here." The budget cuts led to a protest by police at Rio's airport, where arriving tourists were greeted by a sign that said "Welcome to hell." Rio's police also aren't above suspicion in the wake of an Amnesty International warning that attributes more than 2,500 deaths to Rio security forces over the last seven years. And if existing criminal activity can't be contained, what happens if international terrorists decide to make Rio a target? Brazil historically is a non-aligned nation without enemies, but its director of counterterrorism has acknowledged receiving a credible threat from ISIS regarding the Games. The list of doubts goes on and on. Concerns about Brazil's safety standards for construction heightened after two people were killed in April when a new seaside bike path collapsed after being hit by a wave, and the World Anti-Doping Agency judged Rio’s drug-testing laboratory for the Games as unsuitable and shut it down in June. The distress about Rio runs so deep and in so many directions that Hope Solo, who has competed all over the globe as goalie of the U.S. women's soccer team, says she'll likely sequester herself in her hotel room for the duration of the Games from Aug. 5-21. And swimmer Michael Phelps, whose career haul of 18 gold medals is the most in Olympic history, says he will pay to have a private security firm protect his family. In fairness to Rio, some of these same concerns also were trumpeted just two years ago when Brazil hosted what was roundly judged as a successful World Cup. That 2014 event played out with no major setbacks despite months of foreboding about stadium construction, labor strikes and the possibility of widespread and violent protests over spending. David Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of Olympic Historians and author of The Complete Book of the Summer Olympics, was in Brazil for the World Cup and will gladly return in August to attend a Winter or Summer Olympics for the 18th time. "I took my wife and two sons, and we had a great time," Wallechinsky said of the 2014 World Cup in a telephone interview. "With the crime rate, we were warned and warned and warned, and then the people were really kind to us. Nothing happened." But while Wallechinsky says some of the warnings this year are the same as in 2014, he readily acknowledges they've grown more ominous for 2016. "The criticisms now are far greater than they were for the World Cup," says Wallechinsky, who attributes that primarily to a deepening economic crisis that is Brazil's worst since the 1930s. "Things have gotten tremendously worse since then." Wallechinsky says one undeniable mistake Rio organizers made was standing by Guanabara Bay as an Olympic venue. When Rio's organizers made their bid, they promised to undertake a massive cleanup, but by all accounts, the water is as perilous as ever, if not more so. "To me, the scandal is the events at Guanabara Bay," Wallechinsky says. "When I was there two years ago, people brought it up. They said it's ridiculous, that you can go up the road 50 kilometers and there's a whole bay that's perfect. They just felt it was outrageous to go ahead at Guanabara." Wallechinsky also will be in Rio despite receiving a stern admonition about the Zika virus, which has been found to cause pregnant women to give birth to infants with microcephaly, a condition where the baby's head is much smaller than normal. Zika is blamed for severe fetal brain defects, plus problems with vision, hearing and growth. The virus can be transmitted sexually, so men also can endanger a fetus. "My own doctor told me not to go," Wallechinsky says, adding that the physician's daughter had contracted Guillain-Barre Syndrome, which left her paralyzed for two months. Zika wasn't involved in the woman's case, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says Zika leads to Guillain-Barre in "a small proportion" of infections, and the linkage is still being investigated. Wallechinsky says he'll be following the common preventative measures of wearing long-sleeved shirts and coating himself with insect repellant to protect against the mosquito-borne Zika virus. But in one of the few positives for Rio as opening ceremonies approach, one expert in tropical diseases supports the assertion by Olympic organizers that new Zika infections will be held to double digits during the Games. Dr. Peter Hotez, dean for the National School of Tropical Medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine, said in a telephone interview that Rio's expected 500,000 Olympic visitors will face far less risk from Zika than Americans who live in Gulf Coast states and Georgia as the virus spreads north from Latin America. The irony is that people watching the Olympics on television in those states likely will be at greater risk than those Americans who go to Rio, says Hotez, who referenced Zika as "the virus from hell" in an article for JAMA Pediatrics (h/t CNBC).  Hotez, who has made several trips to Brazil for research, explains the virus hits new areas "like a hurricane" and then moves on. "Brazil has had its hurricane," he told B/R. "It had its wave last year. The real risks for Rio, far and away, are road accidents and crime and theft. I'd put Zika way down on the list." Hotez says his advice to anyone who's on the fence about going to Rio is to go ahead and attend the Games "provided they're not pregnant and they're not planning to have children soon." Dr. Bill Mallon, an orthopedic surgeon who has written several books about the Olympics, shares that opinion and will be attending his 11th Olympics at Rio. Mallon's passion for the Games includes doing statistical work for the IOC, and as someone who was mugged at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, he's well aware an event of this scale is never perfect. He believes Rio was a good choice for the Games, or at least it was when the bid was awarded in 2009. "People forget that in 2009, Brazil was a booming economy," Mallon said in a telephone interview. "The IOC couldn't predict what has happened." Mallon also reminds that almost every lead-up to the Games includes fears about unfinished stadiums and infrastructure but that calm usually settles in once competition begins and fans become fascinated with new faces in gymnastics, swimming, track and other sports. As for all the negativity surrounding Rio, Mallon says, "My prediction is that it will certainly turn out better than the predictions have been, just like it always does." But until competition begins and Rio proves it's worthy of being an Olympic host, the nervousness will remain, and many fans and athletes will worry whether these will be the worst Games ever.