Two days after a failed military coup, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan vowed a continued crackdown on those behind it and those perceived to have been involved as large crowds heeded his call to fill the nation's streets. Thousands of soldiers have been arrested and hundreds of judiciary members removed since Friday's uprising, which left at least 290 people dead and more than 1,400 injured in a chaotic night of violence. Around 6,000 people have been detained and arrests will continue, according to Turkey's foreign ministry. Prime Minister Binali Yildirim has vowed that "they will pay a heavy price." Erdogan said that he will remove the "viruses" from all state institutions. The arrests include Gen. Bekir Ercan Van, commander of the Incirlik Air Base, according to the Turkish President's office. The United States uses the airbase to launch airstrikes on ISIS in Syria and Iraq. An "order of detention" for Col. Ali Yazici, a senior military aide to Erdogan, has also been issued, according to Anadolu. Eight Turkish soldiers flew a helicopter to Alexandroupoli, Greece, hours after the failed coup attempt, where they were arrested and charged with "illegal entrance" into Greece. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said they would be extradited within "15 to 20 days," Erdogan said Sunday in a speech outside his Istanbul residence. Clashes occurred Sunday between security forces and coup plotters resisting arrest nearly 200 miles south of Ankara at Konya Airbase, a source told CNN. The government is now in control of the situation, the source said. Erdogan attended a funeral on Sunday held for some of those killed during gunfire -- including the brother of his chief adviser, Mustafa Varank. "It is not anything ordinary that my young brothers lay under tank pellets; this is a manifest of faith," Erdogan said. He also said he did not rule out bringing back the death penalty for the coup's perpetrators. As the crowd chanted "we want the death penalty," he said, "we can't ignore the people's request in a democracy -- this is your right." "This right has to be evaluated by the appropriate authorities according to the constitution and a decision can be made," Erdogan said in the address broadcast live on TV. He asked supporters to stay on guard. "You should fill the squares. This isn't a 12-hour operation. We will continue determinedly." In a rare show of unity, Turkey's political parties united to denounce Friday's coup attempt, but it's uncertain how long that solidarity will last. Erdogan remains a divisive figure in Turkey. "He's loved and worshiped by a good half of the country," CNN's Gul Tuysuz says. "The other half detests him passionately." Indeed there was concern among some opposition figures that the President's triumphant call to action would only embolden his tightening grip on Turkey. "My august nation gave the best answer to the coup plotters," he said Sunday and told his followers to keep up the pressure. The coup attempt comes as a shock to a country more familiar with tackling outside threats such as ISIS and the separatist Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK. For now, Erdogan has urged pro-government protesters to continue rallying, saying: "That's what ruined their plot. But even as government leaders declare it's business as usual in Turkey, many people are grappling with the fallout from Friday's bloody uprising. "Many people are confused by the President's reaction to this uprising -- by his calls to have his followers continuously go out into the streets and create what can only be described as something of a festive atmosphere," said CNN's Arwa Damon in Istanbul. "At the end of the day, this is a country that is also trying to come to terms with the fact that around 200 of its citizens were just killed." European Council President Donald Tusk took to Twitter saying the European Union will be watching closely. Turkey is not an EU member, but it's a crucial partner in managing the refugee crisis. In addition to those detained, Erdogan is demanding the United States arrest or extradite Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom he blamed for the attempt to overthrow the government. Who is Fethullah Gulen? "Twenty years ago, I clearly stated my support for democracy and I said that there is no return from democracy in Turkey," Gulen said Saturday. "My position on democracy is really clear. Any attempts to overthrow the country is a betrayal to our unity and is treason." Gulen, who is living in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, denied he had anything to do with it. "It could be anything," Gulen told journalists. "I have been away from Turkey for 16 years." U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States hadn't yet received a formal request from Turkey for Gulen's extradition. "We think it's irresponsible to have an accusation of American involvement when we're simply waiting for their request -- which we're absolutely prepared to act on if it meets the legal standard," Kerry said. In a country once promoted to the wider Muslim world as a model of democratic governance and economic prosperity, the attempted coup was a shocking shift. The nation plays a crucial role in the fight against terrorism in the Middle East. The ramifications of the coup attempt on the NATO ally and U.S. partner in the fight against ISIS remain unclear. Turkey has reopened the airspace around Incirlik Air Base, where it allows the American military to launch operations in the air campaign against terrorists in Syria and Iraq. The airbase was closed after the attempted coup and its commander detained for his alleged involvement in the uprising. The base is home to the Turkish air force and the U.S. Air Force's 39th Air Base Wing, which includes about 1,500 American personnel, according to the base website. Military tanks rolled onto the streets of Ankara and Istanbul the night before and soldiers blocked the famous Bosphorus Bridge. The military's claim of a takeover was read on state broadcaster TRT. The military said it wanted to maintain democratic order and that the government had "lost all legitimacy." But the coup attempt lost momentum after Erdogan returned from vacation at the seaside resort of Marmaris. In an interview via FaceTime on CNN Turk, he appealed to supporters to quash the attempted coup, and they took to the streets in masses. By the time he re-emerged after hours of silence, dozens had died. Most of those who died were police officers killed in a gunbattle with a helicopter near the Parliament complex in Ankara, reported NTV, a Turkish television station. An additional 1,400 people were wounded. Erdogan was elected Prime Minister in 2003. Under his rule, Turkey became a powerhouse in the Middle East. His reign came to an end in 2014, and his own party's rules prevented him from seeking a fourth term. But in a bid to maintain an important position in Turkish politics, he ran for President in 2014 and won. he post was largely ceremonial before Erdogan's presidency. He has tried to change that by altering the constitution to give him more power. Erdogan remains arguably the most powerful figure in Turkish politics, regardless of title. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on the U.S. Saturday to extradite a Muslim cleric living in Pennsylvania following a failed military coup. In a televised speech, Erdogan said Turkey had never refused any request by the U.S. to extradite “terrorists” and invoked Washington and Ankara's relationship as "strategic partners" in an effort to force the return of Fethullah Gulen. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Saturday the Obama administration would entertain an extradition request but Turkey would have to prove wrongdoing by Gulen. Gulen denied knowledge of the coup to reporters at his Pennsylvania compound Saturday. The cleric said that he knows only a "minute fraction" of his legions of sympathizers in Turkey, so he cannot speak to their "potential involvement" in the takeover attempt. "You can think about many motivations of people who staged this coup. They could be sympathizers of the opposition party. They could be sympathizers of the nationalist party. It could be anything," Gulen, who has lived in the U.S. for more than 15 years, said through an interpreter. The frail-looking Gulen, in his mid-70s, said he wouldn't have returned to Turkey even if the coup had succeeded, fearing he would be "persecuted and harassed." "This is a tranquil and clean place and I enjoy and I live my freedom here," he said. "Longing for my homeland burns in my heart, but freedom is also equally important." Erdogan and Gulen, former political allies, have fallen out in recent years over Erdogan’s years-long crackdown on domestic dissent and Turkey’s once-open media landscape. Given the chance Saturday to deliver a message to Erdogan, Gulen demurred. "If I were to send him a message, he would probably consider it as a slur and reject it," Gulen said, adding, "but I have always prayed for myself and for him. I have prayed to God to lead us to the straight path, to the virtuous path." The cleric, who left Turkey in 1999, now lives in exile in a Pennsylvania Islamic retreat owned by Turkish-Americans and promotes a philosophy that blends a mystical form of Islam with staunch advocacy of democracy, education, science and interfaith dialogue.  He rarely speaks to the media, but his sermons appear online. “Turkey will not be run from a house in Pennsylvania,” Erdogan said in remarks earlier Saturday was quoted as saying by TRT World. “Turkey is not a country that can be bought or sold cheaply.” In his own statement, Gulen said he condemned "in the strongest terms, the attempted military coup in Turkey" and sharply rejected any responsibility for it. "Government should be won through a process of free and fair elections, not force," Gulen said. "As someone who suffered under multiple military coups during the past five decades, it is especially insulting to be accused of having any link to such an attempt. I categorically deny such accusations." The Turkish government detained thousands in the military after quashing the coup attempt and reasserting control of the country's two major cities. Authorities said at least 265 people had been killed in the violence and more than 1,400 others were wounded. Before Friday's coup attempt, more than 2,000 Gulen supporters had been arrested in Turkey on various charges since their split in 2013. In March, Turkish authorities seized control of one of Turkey’s largest newspapers, Zaman, which was associated with Gulen. Even before the latest unrest was under control, Erdogan's government pressed ahead Saturday with a purge of Turkish judicial officials, with 2,745 judges being dismissed across Turkey for alleged ties to Gulen, according to the state-run Anadolu news agency. It said 10 members of Turkey's highest administrative court were detained and arrest warrants were issued for 48 administrative court members and 140 members of Turkey's appeals court. Gulen preaches what many consider a moderate form of Islam. And he has regularly and stridently condemned jihadist terror attacks –much more so than Erdogan, say the president’s critics – and typically advocates interfaith dialogue. Gulen’s movement is widely considered dangerous in Turkey. In Erdogan’s view, he is an arch-enemy of the state, whose followers represent a seditious “parallel-state” within Turkey. Gulen is specifically accused of scheming to have his followers infiltrate the Turkish government for the purpose of overthrowing Erdogan’s ruling Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish acronym as the AKP. Gulen also faces espionage charges, and two trials are now being held in absentia.He is the head of a faith-based social movement that boasts a global following, has deep roots in Turkish society, and cultivates notable influence in the U.S. education through a network of roughly 150 secular charter schools. Turkish prosecutors are investigating people who have alleged on social media that a July 15 coup attempt was a hoax carried out by the government, the country's justice minister said. Bekir Bozdag's comments on Sunday reflected what some critics say are increasing restrictions on expression in the wake of the failed rebellion by some military forces. Meanwhile, Education Minister Ismet Yilmaz said Turkey also plans to hire more than 20,000 teachers to replace those who have been fired in a purge of suspected coup plotters in schools and other institutions. The new teachers will replace state educators who have been dismissed as well as teachers in private schools with alleged links to Fethullah Gulen, a US-based businessman and cleric who has denied accusations that he directed the coup attempt that killed more than 250 people. In other crackdown measures, Turkey has disbanded the presidential guard after already detaining nearly 300 unit members suspected of plotting against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and authorities detained Muhammet Sait Gulen, a nephew of the cleric who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said in an interview with Turkey's Kanal 7 television station on Sunday that anyone who suggests the coup attempt was staged most likely had a role in the insurrection, which was defeated by loyalist forces and pro-government protesters. 'Most are losers' There has been some internet speculation that Erdogan engineered the unrest in order to rally support and thereby increase his power, a conspiracy theory rejected by the government and most commentators on Turkey's recent turbulence. "Just look at the people who are saying on social media that this was theatre. Public prosecutors are already investigating them. Most of them are losers who think it is an honour to die for Fethullah Gulen's command," Bozdag said. Turkey has declared a three-month state of emergency to restore security following the coup attempt, granting Erdogan the power to impose decrees without parliamentary approval. More than 13,000 people, including nearly 9,000 soldiers, 2,100 judges and prosecutors and 1,485 police, have been detained, according to the president. In addition, Erdogan said, the government has closed and seized the assets of 15 universities, 934 other schools, 109 student dormitories, 19 unions and 35 medical institutions as well as numerous other associations and foundations suspected of links to Gulen's movement. Turkey wants the United States to extradite Gulen. US President Barack Obama has said there is a legal process for extradition and has encouraged Turkey to present evidence. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has ruled Turkey for more than a decade. He should be enjoying his time of triumph. He towers above the political system, able to create and dismiss governments at will. The mayor turned prime minister turned president created a new, victorious Islamic movement. He eradicated the gaggle of old, squabbling secular parties. He promoted more business-friendly policies, generating prosperity for those previously left behind. And he won support from women, academics, and liberals as he defanged the military, which long was the ultimate arbiter of Turkish politics. Yet his country almost crashed and burned a week ago. Elements of the army and air force attempted a coup d’etat. For a time state television was occupied. Planes bombed the parliament. Tanks blocked the bridge which crosses the Bosphorus, sundering the land link between Europe and Asia. Soldiers and police battled in the streets. Loyalists’ planes attacked renegades’ helicopters and tanks. Army forces besieged the intelligence agency’s headquarters. Insurgents detained the army chief of staff and other top officers. Civilians confronted the coup’s foot soldiers. Nearly 300 people were killed and almost 1,500 were injured. So far tens of thousands have been arrested or fired. Erdogan promised revenge against those involved, who will “pay a heavy price for their treason.” No doubt they will, since the thin-skinned Erdogan long has been making even mild critics suffer for their alleged sins. To tame the military his government previously tried hundreds of military officers and others in mass trials involving improbably fantastic conspiracies, such as the Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases. After the police and prosecutors had the temerity to investigate members of his government and family for corruption, he purged justice personnel. He now is targeting Kurdish parliamentarians for allegedly supporting “terrorism” by Kurdish separatists. Turkey is one of the least friendly nations for independent journalists. Many have been jailed and an estimated 900 have been forced from their jobs. The government simply seized television stations and newspapers from private owners. Around 2000 people, including students and even a beauty queen, have been prosecuted for criticizing Erdogan. His government periodically targets internet freedom, which provides one of the few remaining means to organize against his authoritarian rule. (And, ironically, which he used to call his supporters to the streets to defeat the coup.) There were at least a few Turkish citizens as well as foreign observers who privately hoped the putsch would end a political experiment gone awry. The briefly constituted junta announced that it had seized power “to reinstall the constitutional order, democracy, human rights and freedoms, to ensure that the rule of law once again reigns in the country, for last and order to be reinstated.” Worthy objectives for an increasingly desperate Turkey today, and, in the view of some, if it took the military to remove an authoritarian Islamist from power, so be it. After all, that’s what the Turkish armed forces did for years. Why not again? Unfortunately, irrespective of its claimed purpose, a coup may be the least likely vehicle for moving Turkey into a genuine liberal, democratic future. For instance, the coup that removed Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi from power in 2013 has been celebrated by some for dismantling that nation’s Muslim Brotherhood. However, President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has turned into a modern pharaoh, unwilling to countenance the slightest opposition or criticism. People routinely disappear off the streets and the regime recently targeted human rights groups which monitor government practices. An activist who fought against torture for decades told me that the situation was much worse than under Sisi’s predecessor, Hosni Mubarak. Equally appalling were the succession of Turkish hard and soft coups, the most recent in 1997, over the years. Those who look back nostalgically on earlier military seizures of power ignore the ugly reality. For instance, the 1960 coup led to the execution of the popularly elected prime minister and other officials and imprisonment of thousands. The military enforced secularism, forbidding even modest expressions of religious faith, and also suppressed basic human rights. One could lose one’s job and face prison for simply criticizing the dominant authoritarian philosophy originally imposed by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, modern Turkey’s founder. Ankara participated in NATO because it opposed the Soviet Union, not because it shared Western values. Even if the latest coup attempt was well-intentioned, it is hard to see how it could have accomplished its professed ends. Today the public is well-organized and committed to democracy. Having provided Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party (AKP) with a half dozen election victories since 2002, the Turkish people were never likely to quietly accept his ouster and the imposition of a hostile military regime. Even the three major opposition parties rallied against the attempted takeover. Once the coup planners proved unable to arrest Erdogan and other government and party officials, shut down unauthorized communication, and block organized public protests, they lost any chance of prevailing. At most they could have triggered extended civil strife and perhaps civil war, as the armed forces confronted the vast majority of Turks. Even had his political opponents rallied to the junta, only use of great violence could have forced his strongholds across the Turkish heartland to submit. Unfortunately, the botched coup is likely to accelerate the Erdogan government’s race to the dictatorial bottom. There obviously are threats to be confronted, but he wanted far more power even before the attempted putsch. Erdogan now is likely to become more vindictive and paranoid. Never mind that he bears responsibility for the authoritarian policies and corrupt practices which have energized his most fervent opponents. Indeed, Erdogan’s first inclination was to blame, without offering any evidence, the cleric Fethullah Gulen, a former ally who lives in self-imposed exile in the U.S. Whatever one thinks of the latter’s philosophy, the 77-year-old is an unlikely mastermind of the military action. Politics almost certainly will grow more polarized. Anger against those who struck at his rule may increase Erdogan’s determination to turn the public square into an echo chamber for his praise, and intensify his extra-legal campaigns against other political parties. The government immediately dismissed nearly 2800 judges—apparently previously targeted for not being in thrall of Erdogan— in the coup’s aftermath. Erdogan’s supporters also could practice private revenge and vigilante justice against their opponents. In fact, Erdogan might reap political advantage from the coup. His reemergence in Istanbul surrounded by crowds brought to mind Boris Yeltsin in 1991 facing down tanks in the old Soviet Union. At that moment Erdogan seemed to speak for all of Turkey. Other parties might feel greater pressure to work with him to deliver the super-majority which he needs to change the Constitution to expand his presidential powers. He also could call a snap election in hopes of winning that majority on his own. Turkey’s security is likely to suffer in the coup’s aftermath. Erdogan’s foreign policy of “zero problems” with Turkey’s neighbors has almost completely backfired, yielding multiple crises. They may have been one factor in the military’s strike on his government. As a result, he recently has begun retreating from confrontation. Ankara recently repaired relations with Israel and Russia and suggested the possibility of rapprochement with Syria. He especially needs to avoid problems with the military torn asunder. Internal security may be a bigger challenge. The Erdogan government originally played footsie with the Islamic State, but several terrorist attacks in Turkey forced a crackdown. Moreover, he reignited the long fight against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) and targeted Syrian Kurds to enlist nationalism as his electoral ally. Now, however, the military is badly damaged and faces internal disarray for an extended period of time. Ankara is a difficult ally for America, but the Obama administration took the right approach, immediately backing Turkey’s elected government. Turkey, like Egypt three years ago, offered no good choices. Democracy is yielding ever more illiberal outcomes, with Erdogan seemingly determined to accrue Putinesque powers. Yet military rule could succeed only by killing and imprisoning on a large scale. And a successful junta was likely to produce a society with even less liberty and respect for human rights. Moreover, the hypocrisy would be particularly glaring if the U.S., a government formally committed to the expansion of democracy, advocated the ouster of a democratically elected government (rather as in Ukraine, though that was more by street revolution than coup). Recep Tayyip Erdogan is an increasingly undemocratic president elected democratically. He should be removed and his government should be ousted—but by Turkey’s voters, not its military. He emerges from the latest crisis stronger. If his arrogance did not exceed his wisdom, he would use the failed coup as an opportunity to address the substantial portion of the population which has come to loath and even fear him. He should reclaim his lost mantle for liberal and democratic change. Someday Turkey will be free. Hopefully a military coup will not be necessary to make it so.